The first step in total hip replacement
is removal of damaged cartilage and bone.
A tool called a reamer
is used to prepare the acetabulum,
the cup-shaped hollow in the hipbone,
to receive the new socket of the hip replacement.
This metal and plastic socket
called an acetabular component
is fitted into the healthy bone and tissue.
The outer metal part of this component,
sometimes called a cup,
fits directly into the socket.
The plastic portion has a hollow
to hold the femoral replacement
at the top of the thighbone or femur.
The outer, metal part is rough
to help bone grow into its surface over time
to stabilize the artificial joint.